{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2708
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green26\blue30;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12157\c13725\c15686;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-roman\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\'01;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh15100\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Main objectives of program: Calculate davies activity coefficient , generate PHREEQC input files , plot Ligand Exchange points as a function of pH and Ionic Strength by processing PHREEQC output files & calculate Intrinsic stability constant from a file. Folder structure is very important.\cb1 \
\cb3 Main folder\
Subfolders:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Code : contains all the py files in this repository\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
PQI folder : stores generated PQI files\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
PQO folder : stores PQO files , PQO files need to be in this folder for the code to run\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Template folder : contains examples of reference files for code input\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Validate folder\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Data folder : contains all databases in PHREEQC\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 A folder template will be linked\cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 .\cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 Absolute paths referenced in code need to be changed to correct paths based on your computer and data storage\cb1 \
\cb3 Instructions\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Download the code folder into a main folder on your computer\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Run searchui.py to extract metal/ligand reaction and stability constant from database e.g for iron - citrate complexation input fecitrate\cb1 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	i	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The result is
\f1\b  stored in the table folder
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Run Davies.py to generate master species section for PHREEQC input file, user input required in lines 315/316 , table of stability constant at different ionic strength for a metal-ligand reaction. Results are 
\f1\b stored in the Davies folder
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Run pqigenerator.py to generate PQI files for specific metal-ligand complexation at different ionic strengths. The user should add a list of ionic strengths to the list on line 8 and the chosen metal and ligand on line 93. 
\f1\b PQI files are stored in PQI folder
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	5	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Run plot.py to generate a graph of stability constant against ionic strength for specific metal-ligand eg FeCitrate
\f1\b . The results are stored in the daviesfig folder
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	6	}Run pqoextract.py to generate the data for plotting. User should change on line 180 to the metal , ligand of study and specify 3pH and 3 ionic strength of which PQO files are present. The result is stored in a csv file in 
\f1\b lepcsv folder
\f0\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	7	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Run lepph or lepion for generation of lep figures. Specify the metal in ionic form and the 2 ligands in line 103 of lepph.py or 88 of lepion.py. In LEPion , users will also need to specify the ionic strength. The graphs are 
\f1\b stored in the lepfig folder
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	8	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Run kintrinsic.py for converting a table of reactions with conditional stability constants to intrinsic value using the Davies activity model. A reference file is shown in the template folder. This code produces an excel sheet
\f1\b  stored \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 in the kintrinsic calculations folder.
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	9	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Run main in LEPUI.py for the complete ligand exchange process from Davies calculation to PQI generation to plotting - must have phreeqc installed for this if not , run each item individually and add PHREEQC output files to PQO folder}